markdownship
==================================================

Build html wiki-like structure from markdown.

how to install
-------------------------

```bash
pip install git+https://github.com/automateship/markdownship.git
```

build single file
-------------------------

To build a single html file from markdown, use this command:

```bash
python -m markdownship build -t template markdown_file.mkd -o output_file.html
```

If you omit `-o` option, output file will be in current dir with same name as
input markdown file but with `.html` extension.

If you omit `-t` option, default template will be used.

build wiki-like structure
-------------------------

Let's say that we have directory tree with markdown files in it like this:

    [/home/user/documentation]
    ├── introduction.mkd
    ├── [first_section]
    │   ├── doc_a.mkd
    │   └── doc_b.mkd
    └── [second_section]
        ├── doc_1.mkd
        ├── doc_2.mkd
        └── [subsection]
            ├── doc_3.mkd
            └── doc_4.mkd

and that we want to convert it to html that will be in `/var/www`. This is how
we do it:

```bash
python -m markdownship build /home/user/documentation -o /var/www/my_wiki -u http://my.wiki.com/
```
Now we will get this:

    [/var/www/my_wiki]
    ├── index.html <------------
    ├── introduction.html
    ├── [first_section]
    │   ├── index.html <--------
    │   ├── doc_a.html
    │   └── doc_b.html
    └── [second_section]
        ├── index.html <--------
        ├── doc_1.html
        ├── doc_2.html
        └── [subsection]
            ├── index.html <----
            ├── doc_3.html
            └── doc_4.html

Note the `index.html` files that are generated. These will contain only table
of contents and nothing more. If you want them to hold some contents, then
create `index.mkd` file in each directory of your `/home/user/documentation`
dir.

Note the `-u` option that we used. It is used to specify root URL of the wiki.
If you have some links inside markdown files, just use `%url%` tag before the
relative path and markdownship will replace it with what is specified by `-u`.

data dir
-------------------------

Default data dir is named `\_data` and should be located in wiki's root
directory. When you use build command, this directory is copied *as is* to the
output root. If you use images in markdown files, you can put them in data dir
and use links to them such as `%url%/_data/images/test.png`.

Data dir also contains several special markdown files.

### special markdown files

These are located in root of the data dir (default `./_data/`).

#### header

Put a file named `header.mkd` in data dir and it will be used to create header
for the site.

#### footer

Just as header, footer also has a special file in data dir and is named
`footer.mkd`.

#### favicon

Add a favicon for your site in data dir and name it `favicon.ico`. It can be in
png and other formats, as long as you keep the same name.

#### table of contents

If you don't want a generated toc and want to define your own, put a file named
`toc.mkd` in your data folder and it will be used instead of generated toc.

templates
-------------------------

### using templates

To get a list of existing templates just call this command:

```bash
python -m markdownship list_templates
```

To specify what template to use during build, just use a `-t` option. Example:

```bash
python -m markdownship build -t dark markdown_file.mkd -o output_file.html
```

To use a custom created template that is not a part of a package, use `-T`
option. Example:

```bash
python -m markdownship build -T ~/custom_template.html markdown_file.mkd -o output_file.html
```

### creating custom templates

Templates are dummy html files that look something like this:

```html
<html>
  <head>
    <style type="text/css">
    </style>
  </head>
  <body>
    %header%
    %toc%
    %markdown%
    %footer%
  </body>
</html>
```

- `%header%` tag will be replaced with header div with id 'header'.
- `%toc%` tag will be replaced with table of contents in a div with id 'toc'.
- `%markdown%` tag is replaced by contents of markdown file. It will be in a div
with id 'markdown'.
- `%footer%` is replaced by footer div with id 'footer'.

You can use custom divs as wrappers for these and define custom css styles.


tags
-------------------------

Tags are specific string in markdown files that are used as placeholders for
data generated by markdownship.

### toc and markdown tags
Usage of `%toc%` and `%markdown%` tags is already explained in
*creating templates* section above.

### url tag
url tag is used to represent base url of the wiki. If you want to have a link
in markdown file that refers to another markdown file, then use this as a path
string: `%url%/wiki_root_dir/path/to/file.mkd`.

More info on tags in help: `python -m markdownship build -h`.

other uses
-------------------------

### vimrc entry

I use this entry in my vimrc. When I vim into some markdown file for editing,
I can press F9 to open the same document in web browser for better display.
This script converts the markdown file to html in `/tmp` directory, fires a
browser and finaly deletes the file from /tmp when I'm done viewing:

```vim
set shell=/bin/bash
:map <F9> :!python -m markdownship build -o /tmp/`basename %`.html %; x-www-browser /tmp/`basename %`.html; rm /tmp/`basename %`.html<CR><CR>
```

